# cLang-8 Dataset

cLang-8 (“cleaned Lang-8”) is a dataset for grammatical error correction (GEC).
The source sentences originate from the popular
[NAIST Lang-8 Learner Corpora](https://sites.google.com/site/naistlang8corpora/home),
while the target sentences are generated by our state-of-the-art GEC method
called gT5. The method is described in our ACL-IJCNLP 2021 paper (link will be
added here).

The paper shows that fine-tuning a
[T5-11B](https://github.com/google-research/text-to-text-transfer-transformer)
model on cLang-8 yields SOTA performance on GEC for English. cLang-8 thus
simplifies a typical GEC training pipeline consisting of multiple fine-tuning
stages.

## Dataset Preparation

cLang-8 is generated by combining the target sentences found under `targets/`
directory of this repository with the source sentences from the original Lang-8
corpus which has to be downloaded separately. Specifically, you need to complete
the following steps:

1.  Fill
    [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/17gZZsC_rnaACMXmPiab3kjqBEtRHPMz0UG9Dk-x_F0k/viewform?edit_requested=true),
    after which you will receive an email with a link to “the raw format
    containing all the data up to 2010”.
2.  Follow the link to download a zip file and extract it.
3.  Update the `LANG8_DIR` variable in `run.sh` to point to the resulting
    extracted directory.
4.  Run command `sh run.sh` which will install the required Python 3
    dependencies in a virtualenv and align the source and the target sentences.

NB: Running the above script takes about 1 hour when spaCy tokenization is
enabled (recommended to make tokenization consistent with ConLL-14 and BEA eval
sets).

## Data Format

The resulting cLang-8 data files will be saved under `./output_data/` directory
and they will be TSV files with a single tab-separated (source, target) pair per
line. Three separate TSV files will be generated for the following languages:

Language | Number of examples
-------- | ------------------
English  | 2,372,119
German   | 114,405
Russian  | 44,830

## How to Cite cLang-8

Please cite the following works if you use cLang-8:

```
@inproceedings{rothe2021a,
  title = {{A Simple Recipe for Multilingual Grammatical Error Correction}},
  author = {Rothe, Sascha and Mallinson, Jonathan and Malmi, Eric and Krause, Sebastian and Severyn, Aliaksei},
  booktitle = {Proc. of ACL-IJCNLP},
  year = {2021}
}

@inproceedings{mizumoto2011mining,
  title={{Mining revision log of language learning SNS for automated Japanese error correction of second language learners}},
  author={Mizumoto, Tomoya and Komachi, Mamoru and Nagata, Masaaki and Matsumoto, Yuji},
  booktitle={Proc. of 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing},
  pages={147--155},
  year={2011}
}
```

## License

Similar to the original Lang-8 corpus, cLang-8 is distributed for research and
educational purposes only. Specifically, cLang-8 is released under
[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/) license.

The code is distributed under Apache 2.0 license.

## Contact Us

If you have a technical question regarding the dataset, code, or publication,
please create an issue in this repository.
